java tried and true general purpose object oriented programming language. Huge adoption in the enterprise space, designed to be fast and scalable. Java applications are compiled to byte code and run on JVM.  For Data science: Weka (mining) , Java-ML (ml library) , Apach MLlib (scalable ml) and Deeplearning4j.   Hadoop managages data processing and storage for big data applications running in clustered systems
Scala is a general-purpose programming language that provides support for functional programming and a strong static type system. Scala is also interoperable with Java, as it runs on the JVM. The name "Scala" is a combination of "scalable" and "language." data science,  Apache Spark.Spark is a fast and general-purpose cluster computing system. It provides APIs that make parallel jobs easy to write, and an optimized engine that supports general computation graphs. Spark includes Shark, which is a query engine; MLlib, for machine learning; GraphX, for graph processing; and Spark Streaming. 
C++ is a general-purpose programming language. It is an extension of the C programming language, or "C with Classes.” C++ improves processing speed, enables system programming, and provides broader control over the software application.  still rely on C++ to develop programs that feed that data to customers in real-time.For data science, a popular deep learning library for dataflow called TensorFlow was built with C++. But while C++ is the foundation of TensorFlow, it runs on a Python interface, so you don’t need to know C++ to use it. MongoDB, a NoSQL database for big data management, was built with C++. Caffe is a deep learning algorithm repository built with C++, with Python and MATLAB bindings. 
JavaScript is a general-purpose language that extended beyond the browser with the creation of Node.js and other server-side approaches.  For data science, the most popular implementation is undoubtedly TensorFlow.js. TensorFlow.js makes machine learning and deep learning possible in Node.js as well as in the browser. TensorFlow.js was also adopted by other open source libraries, including brain.js and machinelearn.js.The R-js project is another great implementation of JavaScript for data science. R-js has re-written linear algebra specifications from the R Language into Typescript.
Julia was designed at MIT for high-performance numerical analysis and computational science. It provides speedy development like Python or R, while producing programs that run as fast as C or Fortran programs. Julia is compiled, which means that the code is executed directly on the processor as executable code.it calls C, Go, Java, MATLAB, R, Fortran, and Python libraries; and has refined parallelism.  JuliaDB is a particularly useful application of Julia for data science.It's a package for working with large persistent data sets.
